# Cricket-Bowling-Analyser

In the past, cricketers could not see their performance parameters like bowling length, speed and line; and batting parameters too. If a cricketer was not performing in a match or was lacking in specific parameter,the fault could not be figured , Like is the bowler injured, less stamina or learning is wrong, that is bad muscle memory.
With the fast-paced improvement in technology nowadays it is integrated with sports. Even in cricket there are major changes due to this, like the hawk eye system, sensor bat, led stumps and stump microphone and camera. In this modern time where we are inclined towards perfection, we need to work on smart systems that can help sportspeople improve their gameplay that’s easy for them and are less time consuming.
This Project “Cricket bowling analyser” is a reliable sytem that takes over the task of evaluating parameters of bowlers in the cricket very accurately and notifies about the parameters and fault delivery in the bowlers bowling via graphical and statistical data. This system will consist of VELOSTAT-based pressure mat which will be fabricated in a grid like structure and laid on the cricket pitch, for speed it will be radar gun. When the bowler’s balls, the ball will fall on a square part of grid which will give the perfect spot on pitch and once it hits stump mat, the deviation from the original landing spot and final spot will give the line.
This system can also be enhanced by providing video processing through cameras which can be recorded and viewed later on. The cricket bowling analyser is a simple sytem that can turn out to be very helpful for the kids as well as adults who want to learn bowling without external assistance or in absence of coach.
